README.md, before:

# Designing resilient water infrastructure partnerships with multiobjective intelligent search

This "MORDM_experiment_paper1" branch of the repository contains code and data for the following paper:

Hamilton, A.L., Reed, P.M., Gupta, R.S., Zeff, H.B., & G.W. Characklis. (2023). Resilient water infrastructure
partnerships in institutionally complex systems face challenging supply and financial risk tradeoffs. *In Review*.

## California Food-Energy-Water System (CALFEWS)

For general information on the California Food-Energy-Water System (CALFEWS) simulation model, please switch to the "
main" branch of this repository, where you will find information on installing, compiling, running, and analyzing the
base model. Interested readers can also refer to the following paper to learn more about the performance and conceptual
underpinnings of the model:

Zeff, H.B., Hamilton, A.L., Malek, K., Herman, J.D., Cohen, J.S., Medellin-Azuara, J., Reed, P.M., and G.W.
Characklis. (2021). California's Food-Energy-Water System: An Open Source Simulation Model of Adaptive Surface and
Groundwater Management in the Central Valley. *Environmental Modelling & Software, 141*: 105052. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2021.105052](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2021.105052)

Licensed under the MIT License, 2017-.

## Installation and setup

1. First, switch to the "main" branch of this repository and follow instructions to clone, compile, and run the base
   CALFEWS model. If you only want to recreate the data analysis and figures (step 5), you can just setup CALFEWS on a
   local desktop/laptop. If you also want to recreate the full multiobjective intelligent search experiment, then you
   will need to access to a large computing cluster, and should set up CALFEWS there as well. The submission scripts are
   set up to run largescale analysis on TACC's Stampede2, and smaller postprocessing jobs on Cornell CAC's TheCube
   cluster. If you want to replicate this analysis on different machines, you will need to alter the SLURM submission
   scripts to match your machine(s).
2. Then switch back to this "MORDM_experiment_paper1" branch and copy all `*.sh` and `*.py` files from
   the `MORDM_experiment/paper1/` directory into the main directory of this repository.
3. Run the cythonization command, `python3 setup_cy.py build_ext --inplace`, on all machines. This step converts Cython
   files (`*.pyx`, `*.pxd`) into C analogues (`*.c`) and then compiles them into dynamic libraries (`*.so` for
   Linux/Unix, `*.pyd` for Windows). These dynamic libraries can be called as fast C code from within a Python script.
4. Obtain additional software for the computer cluster where you will run the multi-objective optimization and
   large-scale resampling experiments.
    - Download the [Borg MOEA](http://borgmoea.org/) source code, using the `alh_python_checkpointing` branch of the
      Master-Worker repository, as demonstrated
      in [this blog post](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2022/04/13/checkpointing-and-restoring-runs-with-the-borg-moea/)
      . Compile the source code in a separate directory, then copy the compiled binaries `libborg.so` and `libborgms.so`
      , as well as the Python wrapper `borg.py`, to the base directory of the current repo.
    - Download the "Compiled Binaries" from the [MOEAFramework](http://www.moeaframework.org/) website and copy
      the `moeaframework.c` & `moeaframework.h` files (from the `MOEAFramework-*/examples` directory of the package) to
      the base directory of this repo.
    - Download the "Demo Application" from the [MOEAFramework](http://www.moeaframework.org/) website and
      copy `MOEAFramework-*-Demo.jar` to the base directory of this repo.
    - Download `pareto.py` from [Github](https://github.com/matthewjwoodruff/pareto.py) and copy it to the base
      directory of this repo.

## Running the Multi-site Hidden Markov Model (MHMM) synthetic generator

1. 100 synthetic timeseries of inflows from the MHMM generator are stored at 
   `calfews_src/data/MGHMM_synthetic/DailyQ_s{n}.csv`, where n is the sample 0-99. If you want to recreate these you
   can run `submmit_MGHMM_MOOWCU.sh` to the SLURM scheduler (set up for TheCube), or just run `generate_MGHMM_MOOWCU.py`
   on your local machine. Samples 0-31 are used for the multi-objective optimization, and samples 33-96 are used for the
   reevaluation.

## Running the multi-objective optimization

1. Run submit_moo_infra.sh for multiple seeds. Each submisssion uses 128 nodes on Stampede2. I ran 6 seeds: 3 with
   dv_formulation=1, 3 with dv_formulation=2. For each, begin with numFEPrevious=0 (a fresh start for MOEA), and run for
   48 hours.
2. Once each of these has finished, it will store results in `results/infra_moo/dv{dv_formulation}_seed{seed}/` -> move
   this to `results/MOO_results_s2/dv{dv_formulation}_seed{seed}_round1/` for storage.
3. Now create a new directory `results/infra_moo/dv{dv_formulation}_seed{seed}/` for the round 2 results to be written
   to. Within it, create a directory `checkpts/`. Within that, copy the
   file `results/MOO_results_s2/dv{dv_formulation}_seed{seed}_round1/checkpts/s{seed}_nfe{NFE_last}.checkpt` from the
   previous round's results, where NFE_last is the largest number file listed in this directory. This file represents a
   snapshot of the Borg MOEA's state after a particular number of function evaluations - snapshots are made every 100
   evaluations. We want to use the most recent snapshot before the job ran out of time and exited. This will be used for
   a starting point for the second round.
4. Now within `submit_moo_infra.sh`, change `numFEPrevious` to this same value as the checkpoint file in the last step
   for each dv_formulation/seed combo, and rerun each seed for a second round.
5. Once these complete, repeat steps 2-4 again in order to run a third round based on the checkpoint from the second
   round. Based on my available computing budget, I only ran round 3 for 24 hours, for a total of 5 days computing
   across the 3 rounds for each seed.

## Postprocessing from the multi-objective optimization

1. Run `run_postprocess_pt1_MOO.sh` three times, one for each round's results. For each, uncomment the three lines
   related to that round's initial and final NFEs for each dv_formulation/seed combination. If you reran the MOO
   experiment yourself, replace the NFE values with those from your own, similar to the checkpoint files used for each
   round. This script will calculate the reference set for each seed and the objective values evolution throughout the
   run.
2. After running pt1 for all three rounds, run `run_postprocess_pt2_MOO.sh` for each round by uncommenting the
   appropriate lines for each. The rounds should be run in the proper order, beginning with round 1. This script will
   calculate the overall Pareto set across all dv_formulations/seeds (using `pareto.py`). The objective values for each
   solution in the Pareto set are stored as `results/MOO_results_s2/overall_ref/overall.reference`. Then
   the `find_runtime_metrics.sh` script calculates the performance metrics (e.g., Hypervolume) evolution throughout each
   run. Note this step is somewhat slow, so it will submmit jobs to the scheduler rather than running on the login node.
   Next, `find_operators.sh` collects the dynamics of the Borg MOEA's internal combination operator weights.
   Lastly, `find_clean_refset.sh` translates solutions from the Pareto set, which come from two separate decision
   variable formulations, into a unified format that can be used in a consistent way for reevaluating solutions. This
   script also adds four additional solutions to the solution set for reevaluation: two high-performing solutions from a
   previous analysis (Hamilton et al, 2022, Earth's Future), the "status quo" Friant contractor partnership (also
   presented in the previous analysis), and the baseline case with no new infrastructure. This step also submmits a job
   to the scheduler rather than running on the login node.
3. Copy `results/MOO_results_s2/overall_ref/overall_clean.reference`
   to `results_arx/infra_moo/overall_ref/overall_clean.csv`, where it will be used for the reevaluation. Note that
   the `results/` directory is ignored by the Git repository, to avoid storing large files. The `results_arx/` directory
   is where smaller processed results files can be stored and backed up. Do not put any files >100 MB in here (or
   elsewhere in repository) or you will have to set up Git Large File Storage. Similarly, copy the metrics files from
   the `find_runtime_metrics.sh` step and the operator files from the `find_operators.sh` step into `
   results_arx/infra_moo/metrics/'.

## Running & postprocessing the reevaluation

1. Next, each of the 1295 solutions (1291 from the Pareto set, plus 4 extra added in the last step) is reevaluated
   across 64 new hydrologic states-of-the-world (SOWs). Submitting `submit_wcu_infra.sh` to the SLURM scheduler will
   run `wcu_reeval_infra.py`, which loops over all solutions and SOW. I ran this on Stampede2 with 32 Skylake nodes, 48
   processors/node, 6 tasks/processor. Each task has 8 processors, which it uses to run the 64 SOWs in a distributed
   manner.
2. Results from the step above are stored in a separate hdf5 file for each MPI task (i.e., 32 nodes x 6 tasks/node = 192
   files), at `results/WCU_results_s2/results_rank{task}.hdf5`.
3. Now run `run_postprocess_WCU.sh`, which runs several postprocessing steps.
    - First, `combine_hdf5.py` combines all of the separate results files from the previous step into a single
      file, `results/WCU_results_s2/results.hdf5`. This file contains 1295 datasets (labeled `soln0` to `soln1294`), one
      for each partnership in `results_arx/infra_moo/overall_ref/overall_clean.csv`. Each dataset dataset contains an
      array of results (e.g., if f is the open hdf5 file, `f['soln0'][...]` is the numeric results for the first
      partnership). Rows are different metrics aggregated across time (e.g., PRT_avg_captured_water gives the average
      captured water gain for Porterville Irrigation District), with metric names given
      in `f['soln0'].attrs['rownames']`. Columns represent different SOWs, as labeled in `f['soln0'].attrs['colnames']`.
      The decision variable names and their values for each partnership are given in `f['soln0'].attrs['dv_names']`
      and `f['soln0'].attrs['dvs']`, respectively.
    - Next, `find_objs_WCU.py` loops over solutions in the results file and calculates the reevaluated objectives for
      each partnership, consistent with their definitions in the multi-objective optimization step. These are stored
      in `results/WCU_results_s2/objs_wcu.csv`.
    - Some of the partnerships from the Pareto set will have degraded upon reevaluation and are no longer non-dominated.
      The next step is to recalculate the Pareto set using `pareto.py`, both for the same epsilon dominance parameters
      used in the optimization (`objs_wcu_pareto_5objs.csv`) as well as for a coarsened Pareto set to be used in a
      larger deeply uncertain reevaluation (future work beyond this particular paper). The four additional non-Pareto
      solutions are added back to this dataset as well (see Step 2 under "Postprocessing from the multi-objective
      optimization"), and copied to `results_arx/infra_wcu/` for longer term storage in the Git repository.

## Analyzing the results & creating figures

1. Once the optimization and reevaluation steps have been completed, the remaining analysis and figure generation can be
   done on a local computer. Three basic dataset are needed from the optimization and reevaluation steps:
    - Performance metrics for each seed and decision variable formulation within the multiobjective optimization
      step (`results_arx/infra_moo/metrics/*.metrics`).
    - Aggregated partnership-level performance for the optimal tradeoff partnerships in the reevaluation
      step (`results_arx/infra_wcu/objs_wcu_pareto_5objs.csv`) and the non-optimized
      partnerships (`results_arx/infra_wcu/objs_wcu_pareto_5objs_coarse_withBaselines.csv`).
    - Disaggregated partner-level performance in individual hydrologic scenarios for the optimal tradeoff partnerships
      and non-optimized partnerships in the reevaluation. This dataset (`results.hdf5` in the previous step) is too
      large for storage within the GitHub repository, but is packaged separately within the GitHub release associated
      with this branch as `results_reevaluation_disagg.hdf5`.
2. Navigate to the `MORDM_experiment/paper1/` directory.
3. After downloading the `results_reevaluation_disagg.hdf5` file(either from the GitHub release or from your own
   reevaluation) and placing it in any location on your computer outside of the CALFEWS repository, update
   the `results_disagg_file` variable at the top of `fig_functions.py` with the correct absolute file path.
4. Run `make_figs.py`, which will run the analysis and create all figures from the paper (except those in the next step) in the `figs/` directory.
5. To generate the figures related to the MHMM synthetic hydrologic generator, run the following steps. You will need an R installation as well as Python.
    - Run `make_mhmm_figures_pt1.py`. This code fits the multi-site hidden Markov model, creates Figure S12-14 which assess goodness of fit of the model, and creates an example 110-year synthetic streamflow sample (`AnnualQ_s.csv`).
    - Run `daily_disaggregation.py` to disaggregate `AnnualQ_csv` to a daily timescale (`DailyQ_s.csv`).
    - Run `make_mhmm_figures_pt2.py`. This code creates Figures S10-11 which are correlation heat map plots that assess how well the model is maintaining spatial correlation in the synthetic traces. 
    - Run `aggregate_synthetic_traces.R` to aggregate the ensemble of synthetic traces (in `./calfews_src/data/MGHMM_synthetic/`) across locations. 
    - Run `make_mhmm_figures_pt3.py` to create Figure S7 which creates synthetic and historical flow duration curves at specific locations.

Commit message:

update MOO anvil workflow (currently MPI issue but I think its software dependencies)

README.md, after:

# Designing resilient water infrastructure partnerships with multiobjective intelligent search

This "MORDM_experiment_paper1" branch of the repository contains code and data for the following paper:

Hamilton, A.L., Reed, P.M., Gupta, R.S., Zeff, H.B., & G.W. Characklis. (2023). Resilient water infrastructure
partnerships in institutionally complex systems face challenging supply and financial risk tradeoffs. *In Review*.

## California Food-Energy-Water System (CALFEWS)

For general information on the California Food-Energy-Water System (CALFEWS) simulation model, please switch to the "
main" branch of this repository, where you will find information on installing, compiling, running, and analyzing the
base model. Interested readers can also refer to the following paper to learn more about the performance and conceptual
underpinnings of the model:

Zeff, H.B., Hamilton, A.L., Malek, K., Herman, J.D., Cohen, J.S., Medellin-Azuara, J., Reed, P.M., and G.W.
Characklis. (2021). California's Food-Energy-Water System: An Open Source Simulation Model of Adaptive Surface and
Groundwater Management in the Central Valley. *Environmental Modelling & Software, 141*: 105052. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2021.105052](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2021.105052)

Licensed under the MIT License, 2017-.

## Installation and setup

1. First, switch to the "main" branch of this repository and follow instructions to clone, compile, and run the base
   CALFEWS model. If you only want to recreate the data analysis and figures (step 5), you can just setup CALFEWS on a
   local desktop/laptop. If you also want to recreate the full multiobjective intelligent search experiment, then you
   will need to access to a large computing cluster, and should set up CALFEWS there as well. The submission scripts are
   set up to run largescale analysis on TACC's Stampede2, and smaller postprocessing jobs on Cornell CAC's TheCube
   cluster. If you want to replicate this analysis on different machines, you will need to alter the SLURM submission
   scripts to match your machine(s).
2. Then switch back to this "MORDM_experiment_paper1" branch and copy all `*.sh` and `*.py` files from
   the `MORDM_experiment/paper1/` directory into the main directory of this repository.
3. Run the cythonization command, `python3 setup_cy.py build_ext --inplace`, on all machines. This step converts Cython
   files (`*.pyx`, `*.pxd`) into C analogues (`*.c`) and then compiles them into dynamic libraries (`*.so` for
   Linux/Unix, `*.pyd` for Windows). These dynamic libraries can be called as fast C code from within a Python script.
4. Obtain additional software for the computer cluster where you will run the multi-objective optimization and
   large-scale resampling experiments.
    - Download the [Borg MOEA](http://borgmoea.org/) source code, using the `alh_python_checkpointing` branch of the
      Master-Worker repository, as demonstrated
      in [this blog post](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2022/04/13/checkpointing-and-restoring-runs-with-the-borg-moea/)
      . Compile the source code in 2 steps (borg.c with gcc, borgms.c with mpicc) in a separate directory as described in post above, then copy the compiled binaries `libborg.so` and `libborgms.so`
      , as well as the Python wrapper `borg.py` from the `Python/` directory, to the base directory of the current repo.
    - Download the "Compiled Binaries" from the [MOEAFramework](http://www.moeaframework.org/) website and copy
      the `moeaframework.c` & `moeaframework.h` files (from the `MOEAFramework-*/examples` directory of the package) to
      the base directory of this repo.
    - Download the "Demo Application" from the [MOEAFramework](http://www.moeaframework.org/) website and
      copy `MOEAFramework-*-Demo.jar` to the base directory of this repo.
    - Download `pareto.py` from [Github](https://github.com/matthewjwoodruff/pareto.py) and copy it to the base
      directory of this repo.

## Running the Multi-site Hidden Markov Model (MHMM) synthetic generator

1. 100 synthetic timeseries of inflows from the MHMM generator are stored at 
   `calfews_src/data/MGHMM_synthetic/DailyQ_s{n}.csv`, where n is the sample 0-99. If you want to recreate these you
   can run `submmit_MGHMM_MOOWCU.sh` to the SLURM scheduler (set up for TheCube), or just run `generate_MGHMM_MOOWCU.py`
   on your local machine. Samples 0-31 are used for the multi-objective optimization, and samples 33-96 are used for the
   reevaluation.

## Running the multi-objective optimization

1. First run the baseline simulations with no new infrastructure by submitting submit_baselines_anvil.sh to the SLURM scheduler via sbatch. I ran all 100 simulations at once using a single job with 1 task of 100 cores. This took ~13 minutes.
2. Run submit_moo_infra.sh for multiple seeds. Each submisssion uses 128 nodes on Stampede2. I ran 6 seeds: 3 with
   dv_formulation=1, 3 with dv_formulation=2. For each, begin with numFEPrevious=0 (a fresh start for MOEA), and run for
   48 hours.
3. Once each of these has finished, it will store results in `results/infra_moo/dv{dv_formulation}_seed{seed}/` -> move
   this to `results/MOO_results_s2/dv{dv_formulation}_seed{seed}_round1/` for storage.
4. Now create a new directory `results/infra_moo/dv{dv_formulation}_seed{seed}/` for the round 2 results to be written
   to. Within it, create a directory `checkpts/`. Within that, copy the
   file `results/MOO_results_s2/dv{dv_formulation}_seed{seed}_round1/checkpts/s{seed}_nfe{NFE_last}.checkpt` from the
   previous round's results, where NFE_last is the largest number file listed in this directory. This file represents a
   snapshot of the Borg MOEA's state after a particular number of function evaluations - snapshots are made every 100
   evaluations. We want to use the most recent snapshot before the job ran out of time and exited. This will be used for
   a starting point for the second round.
5. Now within `submit_moo_infra.sh`, change `numFEPrevious` to this same value as the checkpoint file in the last step
   for each dv_formulation/seed combo, and rerun each seed for a second round.
6. Once these are complete, repeat steps 3-5 again in order to run a third round based on the checkpoint from the second
   round. Based on my available computing budget, I only ran round 3 for 24 hours, for a total of 5 days computing
   across the 3 rounds for each seed.

## Postprocessing from the multi-objective optimization

1. Run `run_postprocess_pt1_MOO.sh` three times, one for each round's results. For each, uncomment the three lines
   related to that round's initial and final NFEs for each dv_formulation/seed combination. If you reran the MOO
   experiment yourself, replace the NFE values with those from your own, similar to the checkpoint files used for each
   round. This script will calculate the reference set for each seed and the objective values evolution throughout the
   run.
2. After running pt1 for all three rounds, run `run_postprocess_pt2_MOO.sh` for each round by uncommenting the
   appropriate lines for each. The rounds should be run in the proper order, beginning with round 1. This script will
   calculate the overall Pareto set across all dv_formulations/seeds (using `pareto.py`). The objective values for each
   solution in the Pareto set are stored as `results/MOO_results_s2/overall_ref/overall.reference`. Then
   the `find_runtime_metrics.sh` script calculates the performance metrics (e.g., Hypervolume) evolution throughout each
   run. Note this step is somewhat slow, so it will submmit jobs to the scheduler rather than running on the login node.
   Next, `find_operators.sh` collects the dynamics of the Borg MOEA's internal combination operator weights.
   Lastly, `find_clean_refset.sh` translates solutions from the Pareto set, which come from two separate decision
   variable formulations, into a unified format that can be used in a consistent way for reevaluating solutions. This
   script also adds four additional solutions to the solution set for reevaluation: two high-performing solutions from a
   previous analysis (Hamilton et al, 2022, Earth's Future), the "status quo" Friant contractor partnership (also
   presented in the previous analysis), and the baseline case with no new infrastructure. This step also submmits a job
   to the scheduler rather than running on the login node.
3. Copy `results/MOO_results_s2/overall_ref/overall_clean.reference`
   to `results_arx/infra_moo/overall_ref/overall_clean.csv`, where it will be used for the reevaluation. Note that
   the `results/` directory is ignored by the Git repository, to avoid storing large files. The `results_arx/` directory
   is where smaller processed results files can be stored and backed up. Do not put any files >100 MB in here (or
   elsewhere in repository) or you will have to set up Git Large File Storage. Similarly, copy the metrics files from
   the `find_runtime_metrics.sh` step and the operator files from the `find_operators.sh` step into `
   results_arx/infra_moo/metrics/'.

## Running & postprocessing the reevaluation

1. Next, each of the 1295 solutions (1291 from the Pareto set, plus 4 extra added in the last step) is reevaluated
   across 64 new hydrologic states-of-the-world (SOWs). Submitting `submit_wcu_infra.sh` to the SLURM scheduler will
   run `wcu_reeval_infra.py`, which loops over all solutions and SOW. I ran this on Stampede2 with 32 Skylake nodes, 48
   processors/node, 6 tasks/processor. Each task has 8 processors, which it uses to run the 64 SOWs in a distributed
   manner.
2. Results from the step above are stored in a separate hdf5 file for each MPI task (i.e., 32 nodes x 6 tasks/node = 192
   files), at `results/WCU_results_s2/results_rank{task}.hdf5`.
3. Now run `run_postprocess_WCU.sh`, which runs several postprocessing steps.
    - First, `combine_hdf5.py` combines all of the separate results files from the previous step into a single
      file, `results/WCU_results_s2/results.hdf5`. This file contains 1295 datasets (labeled `soln0` to `soln1294`), one
      for each partnership in `results_arx/infra_moo/overall_ref/overall_clean.csv`. Each dataset dataset contains an
      array of results (e.g., if f is the open hdf5 file, `f['soln0'][...]` is the numeric results for the first
      partnership). Rows are different metrics aggregated across time (e.g., PRT_avg_captured_water gives the average
      captured water gain for Porterville Irrigation District), with metric names given
      in `f['soln0'].attrs['rownames']`. Columns represent different SOWs, as labeled in `f['soln0'].attrs['colnames']`.
      The decision variable names and their values for each partnership are given in `f['soln0'].attrs['dv_names']`
      and `f['soln0'].attrs['dvs']`, respectively.
    - Next, `find_objs_WCU.py` loops over solutions in the results file and calculates the reevaluated objectives for
      each partnership, consistent with their definitions in the multi-objective optimization step. These are stored
      in `results/WCU_results_s2/objs_wcu.csv`.
    - Some of the partnerships from the Pareto set will have degraded upon reevaluation and are no longer non-dominated.
      The next step is to recalculate the Pareto set using `pareto.py`, both for the same epsilon dominance parameters
      used in the optimization (`objs_wcu_pareto_5objs.csv`) as well as for a coarsened Pareto set to be used in a
      larger deeply uncertain reevaluation (future work beyond this particular paper). The four additional non-Pareto
      solutions are added back to this dataset as well (see Step 2 under "Postprocessing from the multi-objective
      optimization"), and copied to `results_arx/infra_wcu/` for longer term storage in the Git repository.

## Analyzing the results & creating figures

1. Once the optimization and reevaluation steps have been completed, the remaining analysis and figure generation can be
   done on a local computer. Three basic dataset are needed from the optimization and reevaluation steps:
    - Performance metrics for each seed and decision variable formulation within the multiobjective optimization
      step (`results_arx/infra_moo/metrics/*.metrics`).
    - Aggregated partnership-level performance for the optimal tradeoff partnerships in the reevaluation
      step (`results_arx/infra_wcu/objs_wcu_pareto_5objs.csv`) and the non-optimized
      partnerships (`results_arx/infra_wcu/objs_wcu_pareto_5objs_coarse_withBaselines.csv`).
    - Disaggregated partner-level performance in individual hydrologic scenarios for the optimal tradeoff partnerships
      and non-optimized partnerships in the reevaluation. This dataset (`results.hdf5` in the previous step) is too
      large for storage within the GitHub repository, but is packaged separately within the GitHub release associated
      with this branch as `results_reevaluation_disagg.hdf5`.
2. Navigate to the `MORDM_experiment/paper1/` directory.
3. After downloading the `results_reevaluation_disagg.hdf5` file(either from the GitHub release or from your own
   reevaluation) and placing it in any location on your computer outside of the CALFEWS repository, update
   the `results_disagg_file` variable at the top of `fig_functions.py` with the correct absolute file path.
4. Run `make_figs.py`, which will run the analysis and create all figures from the paper (except those in the next step) in the `figs/` directory.
5. To generate the figures related to the MHMM synthetic hydrologic generator, run the following steps. You will need an R installation as well as Python.
    - Run `make_mhmm_figures_pt1.py`. This code fits the multi-site hidden Markov model, creates Figure S12-14 which assess goodness of fit of the model, and creates an example 110-year synthetic streamflow sample (`AnnualQ_s.csv`).
    - Run `daily_disaggregation.py` to disaggregate `AnnualQ_csv` to a daily timescale (`DailyQ_s.csv`).
    - Run `make_mhmm_figures_pt2.py`. This code creates Figures S10-11 which are correlation heat map plots that assess how well the model is maintaining spatial correlation in the synthetic traces. 
    - Run `aggregate_synthetic_traces.R` to aggregate the ensemble of synthetic traces (in `./calfews_src/data/MGHMM_synthetic/`) across locations. 
    - Run `make_mhmm_figures_pt3.py` to create Figure S7 which creates synthetic and historical flow duration curves at specific locations.
